---
layout: post
title:  "Tsumego"
date:   2016-01-08 09:22:48 -0500
categories: baduk
---

For a game defined by such simple rules, Baduk has an incredible
number of subtopics of study from fuseki (opening) to yose
(endgame). However, one could say all these topics are just
delineations of one thing - *reading*.

There are of course many ways to improve at reading - if you have a
lot of free time on your hands you can play lots of games and observe
lots of games.

## The Mind's Eye

Knowing what doesn't work is just as important as knowing what does
work. In many cases you will find yourself unable to find the solution
but you may see the various lines of plays that don't work. This is
information! Don't play moves that don't work. This may sound obvious
but I can't believe how many times I've stubbornly tried a solution
knowing it doesn't succeed. If you do this in your tsumego study
there's a good chance you do it when you play a real opponent.

In this post I'd like to talk a bit more about
[Graded Go Problems for Beginners Volume 4](http://senseis.xmp.net/?GradedGoProblemsForBeginners)
(GGPB4) as well as a problem book series that is new to me,
[Jump Level Up! Volumes 1-5](senseis.xmp.net/?JumpLevelUp).

Having made it through the first volume of JLU series and
digging into the second one, I believe this series fills a huge gap in
with respect to books that aid in developing strong reading
skills. None of the problem books I've owned in the past focuses quite
as much in covering the fundamentals with respect to how the stones
should move.

I spoke briefly about the former in my previous post and I'd like to
dive into my developing approach to studying this challenging problem
set as other people might find it a useful jumping off point for their
own study approaches. I'm slowly discovering my own path to studying
harder problems as well as some basic psychological considerations
that help in keeping up enthusiasm for problems that cannot be solved
quickly at my skill level.

## Jump Level Up! Volumes 1-5

The later came to my attention because the series comes from the
[Baduk program at Myongji University](https://www.mju.ac.kr/mbs/mjuen/subview.jsp?id=mjuen_020207040100)
in South Korea. The entire series is designed expressly for
children. Presented in workbook style, it features comis, cute
drawings, and funny stories. However it's my firm belief that
presentation styles designed for younger audiences is more or less
precisely the same style you should be using with adults.

The series is also a good antidote (for me anyway) in my struggles
with GGPB4. Unlike GGPB4 where often simpler problems are mixed in with
very challenging ones, JLU has intentional gradual difficultly
gradation.

Unlike the Graded Go Problems for Beginners (GGPB) volumes, many of
the puzzles presented show positions likely to be encountered in
actual play. While GGPB tends to develop your overall visualization
skills, JLU gives you tools for making the right decision quickly
while the clock is ticking.

For example capturing races ofter occur in real games.

Yet again we have the fast and slow principle. JLU gives you problems
you should be answer in seconds - that is they should be
instinctual. GGPB guides you towards deepening your reading
skills. Some problems are just not possible to be sure of without
reading out several variations.

## Graded Go Problems Volume 4

When attacking GGPB problems quite I find myself making the wrong
play. Often the particular incorrect line of play will not be
elaborated. At this point I stop and see if I can find the opponent's
counter move that somehow missed.

Sometimes I still cannot find the best counterplay. At this point I
copy the problem as SGF and paste it into Smart Go Kifu. By touching
and holding down on the stone next to the problem diagram you will get
a popup menu that offers a "Copy" feature. You can then switch to
SmartGo Kifu into the "My Games" tab and click the add game button -
you'll be offered the option to "Paste SGF".
    
    [Image]()
    [Image]()
    [Image]()

There I try out the variations until I can find the opponent's best
play. At that point I dig in until I see how the opponent's best play
foils success.

Then return to the original problem and verify that I can see the
failing line of play without actually playing out any moves.

The other thing I love babout JLU is the method by which the book
covers joseki, understanding professional games, and.

As a general rule the problems are very easy. As a KGS 8-9kyu I find
that I can answer the problems instantly. But that's really not the
point. All of the ideas presently are precisely the kind of thing that
should come instantly to your during actual play. You *should* be able
to do these in your sleep.

## Balance

The GGPB4 life and death problems can sometimes seem repetitive and
tedious especially given the consistent difficulty.
