---
layout: post
title:  "League G, Round 5"
date:   2016-11-04
---

<iframe id="gokibitz-VJXRwbSeG" src="//gokibitz.com/kifu/VJXRwbSeG"
style="float: right; margin-left: 1em; width: 400px; max-height:
560px; display: block; border: 10px solid snow;"></iframe> <script
src="//gokibitz.com/embed/VJXRwbSeG"></script>

Yunguseng had a week long break and during that time I was traveling
for work so there was little free time for me to post. Tonight I just
finished the final game of my second month which I won because my
opponent ran out of time. At one point I was managing two weak groups,
but I got lucky and both of them survived. After that, I thought I
was doing okay and could see a possible path to victory. I don't feel
particularly positive or negative about this game and I'm looking
forward to the review to see which of my ideas were reasonable.

My record this month was 2-3 and being the lowest ranked player (your
rank is used as the tiebreaker if other people end up with the same
win/loss record) I'll be going to back League H. This month has really
shown me how much more I have to learn, and next month I'll be
fighting hard to get back into League G and this time better
prepared. Still, all this playing & studying is paying off; I finally
feel like I've properly achieved 6 kyu on KGS and if I can win a few
more games I think I can break 5 kyu before 2017!

In other news, I'm really looking forward to the weekend as Nathan
Eagle (lead developer of [GoKibitz](http://gokibitz.com) is visiting
tomorrow. On Saturday, the two of us and several other US Go Congress
friends are going to make the trek to Stephanie Yin's (1P) school in
Flushing, New York.

Expect lots of stories and hopefully some cool photos!
