---
layout: post
title:  "League G, Round 1"
date:   2016-10-04
---

<iframe id="gokibitz-Ey2_9UaTW" src="//gokibitz.com/kifu/Ey2_9UaTW"
style="float: right; margin-left: 1em; width: 400px; min-height:
560px; display: block; border: 10px solid snow;"></iframe> <script
src="//gokibitz.com/embed/Ey2_9UaTW"></script>

At US Go Congress I often heard repeated that as you get stronger the
game just gets harder. Well tonight felt like a pretty good
confirmation of that. This first game of the month was against the top
player in league G (and I'm the bottom player). The game ended with my
resignation. I made several misreads at the end, but that wasn't the
real story of the game - it seemed pretty clear to me that I had an
inferior position and few options. Something had gone
wrong much earlier in the game and I'm looking forward to the review
to figure out where I went astray. I do suspect my formation on the right was
unideal, my cut in the center was an overplay 
(since the surrounding positions were not in my favor), and I delayed
doing something about the bottom far too long.

My opponent was kind enough to do a short review after the game and he
focused on the opening moves. He pointed out some typical options
against the Kobayashi. This is yet another opening I don't really know
anything about beyond the placement of the initial stones. In-seong
has a video lecture on this of course and it's now bumped to the top
of my queue.

So more KGS games and more studying! I plan on going into the next round
with at least a better understanding of the Kobayashi and eye for
avoiding the conceptual mistakes I made in this game whatever they
turn out to be.
