---
layout: post
title:  "No Fear of Losing"
date:   2016-10-20
---

<iframe id="gokibitz-4yi5uOMJz" src="//gokibitz.com/kifu/4yi5uOMJz"
style="float: right; margin-left: 1em; width: 400px; max-height:
560px; display: block; border: 10px solid snow;"></iframe> <script
src="//gokibitz.com/embed/4yi5uOMJz"></script>

I recently starting reading a book on Chess,
[The Rookie by Stephen Moss](http://www.bloomsbury.com/uk/the-rookie-9781408189702/)
thanks to a recent thread about it on L19. John Fairbairn seemed to
dig it quite a bit and he believed it had many interesting insights
even for (or perhaps especially for) Go players. So far I largely
agree with his assessment and the book is quite humorous to
boot. Written in an easy conversational style, the book outlines
Moss's journey to become a stronger chess player. One thing that struck me
early on in the book, Moss notes that chess masters often say
that good chess and a fear of losing are like oil and water. It sounds
like a platitude, but in the struggle to better one's self it's so
easy to lose sight of simple truths like this one! Of course this
adage also applies to Baduk and I'm happy to say that loss by loss,
American Yunguseng Dojang is putting my fear of losing at Baduk to
rest.

Case in point, Round 3 ended up being a disaster much like Round 1 but
this time I played it out to the end rather than resigning. When we
scored and I saw the result, I was surprised to find myself
unperturbed by the staggering 69.5 point loss! In fact, I felt
perfectly fine about the game. In the past I might have been
embarrassed to share a game like this. No longer! I knew that I had
tried my very best against a stronger opponent. That's the nature of a
league style system, when you promote, chances are you're going to
start losing a lot of games. But it's the losses at the edge of
your capability that present the greatest opportunities to make real progress.

# Round 4

<iframe id="gokibitz-E1TsO_zyM" src="//gokibitz.com/kifu/E1TsO_zyM" style="float: right; margin-left: 1em; width: 400px; max-height:
560px; display: block; border: 10px solid snow;"></iframe> <script src="//gokibitz.com/embed/E1TsO_zyM"></script>

I finally got around to switching around my schedule so that I can
play my Yunguseng games at the usual scheduled time and participate in
the reviews afterwards. Today I played against an opponent rated 3
stones stronger than me (on KGS and according to the AGA). Our game
lasted exactly two hours. Thanks to a ko in the upper left corner I
was able to make a twenty point swing that sealed victory granted I
didn't blunder through the endgame.

I ended up winning by 17.5 points.

During the review In-seong only pointed out two really big mistakes,
R18 in the opening was an overplay and E12 should have been at
N3. There was a cross-cut opportunity that I missed - but for the most
part In-seong complimented the game. The game had a clear and stable
story that was easy to follow.

I would be lying to myself if I said I didn't feel some pride about
this game. Still in the past I might have lingered longer reviewing a
win like this - patting myself on the back and all that. No
longer. Soon it will be forgotten as I continue chasing stronger and
stronger opponents on the long path to deepening my appreciation for
Baduk.
