---
layout: post
title:  "Calm"
date:   2016-10-01
---

<iframe id="gokibitz-EJzIXVt6-" src="//gokibitz.com/kifu/EJzIXVt6-" style="float: right; margin-left: 1em; width: 400px; min-height:
560px; display: block; border: 10px solid snow;"></iframe> <script src="//gokibitz.com/embed/VJsZ54Ua-"></script>

My third KGS win a row. For the very first time I've properly achieved
6 kyu (my account had previously drifted above that only due to months
of inactivity). This game was particularly meaningful to me because I
played it with more calm than I've previously been able to muster. Any
player of Go (or Chess or whatever) knows the anxiety that can come
with the battle over the board. Games can be particularly anxious if
your opponent pulls unexpected or unusual moves that confuse
you. However, even when my opponent played tengen on move 6, I took
three minutes before calmly deciding to approach the lower left
corner. For the remainder of the game, I consistently avoided
impulsively responding to my opponent's feints and focused intently on
finding the simplest moves that worked.

I think this new found calm can be heavily attributed playing more and
joining In-seong's school. Reviewing the month of September I was
surprised to see that I had played a whopping 12 games, 5 of those, of
course, slow paced Yunguseng games. Getting laser sharp criticism once
a week really highlights that wins and losses just aren't as different
as they seem. Regardless of the game's outcome there are mistakes, bad
habits, and missing knowledge that will prevent further progress.

Go, like any art, must be practiced with consistency if you want to
improve. Perhaps the few people lucky enough to be endowed with talent
can rush by us. The rest of us, on the other hand, must calmly accept
our fate and patiently move forward step by step, game by game.
