---
layout: post
title:  "League G, Round 2"
date:   2016-10-12
---

<iframe id="gokibitz-Ey-_61uC-" src="//gokibitz.com/kifu/Ey-_61uC-"
style="float: right; margin-left: 1em; width: 400px; min-height:
560px; display: block; border: 10px solid snow;"></iframe> <script
src="//gokibitz.com/embed/Ey-_61uC-"></script>

Second game of October. I lost this one by 3.5 points, and to tell you
the truth, it was a really darn fun game. Unlike the previous round, I
felt like I held my own against an opponent rated a couple stones of
stronger than myself. Once again I played the Chinese across the top
though I made a mistake this time around by not just kicking my
opponent's approach stone in the upper left. Still, I was able to
pressure the white invasion stones and build a comfortable framework.

The game proceeded with some heavy fighting in the lower part of the
board that ended more or less settling my left side territory. I was
happy that I didn't submit to white 108. I feel like I may have made a
strategic error at move 127 - that was probably the moment to play my
sente plays against white's bottom right and then come back and
reinforce the top. I think I was concerned about the center but white
needed at least a couple moves to convert it into something substantial.

As far as what I've been doing the past week between rounds, I'm still
working through my second pass at Cho Hun-hyeon's first technique
book. It's amazing how quickly you can forget something you literally
just read. It'd also been a while since I'd cracked open Graded Go
Problems For Beginners Volume 3 (GGPFB3) so I've been running through
it the past couple of days. I now find these problems considerably
simpler and faster to solve than the fifth volume of Jump Level Up!
The one place where I do seem to consistently make mistakes in GGPFB3
still are the joseki problems. Unsurprising given my experience in
Yunguseng so far, patterns are one of my biggest weaknesses. I did
review In-seong's video on the Kobayashi opening and I feel like I
understand the basics now though there are an incredible number of
variations.

I've also played 2 regular rated games against 5 kyus on KGS both
of which I lost. However, I'm starting to get a tingling feeling
these opponents are no longer that far out of my reach.
