---
layout: post
title:  "4-0"
date:   2017-09-13
---

As I'm traveling abroad the later half of September, I've been forced
to play all of my September AYD games in the first two weeks of the
month. This made me a bit apprehensive since that meant I wouldn't get
to enjoy appropriately spaced out reviews to gain insights to
bring to the following rounds. So it was a bit of a surprise that I went 4-0
for the very first time tonight in League G. I'm pretty certain I will
promote, and I still have one more game tomorrow to see if I can make
a clean 5-0 sweep.

While I'll refrain from saying this means I making progress, I can say
I'm taking my last AYD report card very much to heart. I've more or less
kept to faster games on Foxy or WBaduk and easy tsumego
problems. Outside of tsumego, book study has dwindled down to
reviewing games, and currently I'm playing through Shusaku games
(Ota Yuzo Sanjunbango again) as well as Lee
Chang-ho (against his teacher Cho Hun-hyun). The only thing I haven't
done for lack of time is go over In-seong's local technique lectures.

Looking back, I see now that my first season of AYD was mostly about
cleaning out some DDK habits and learning how to make a stable
game. My first report card identified an aggressive style so I think
I tried to overcompensate. The problem in the second season was that
instead of finding a balance, I became an passive player. Being
passive doesn't generally lead to good results, and by the end of my
third AYD season, I'd become a pessimistic player. I unreasonably
believed that if I didn't come out of the opening with the lead, I
couldn't win the game. I would agonize over the opening and then be
left with no time for critical middlegame judgements.

Playing fast games has forced me to trust my instincts, and, as
In-seong predicted, they more often than not serve me well. I feel now
that the middlegame and endgame provide ample opportunities to turn
the tide.

After my game tomorrow I'm not sure how much time I'll have for Go for
the remainder of September as I'll be pretty busy with work. I did buy
another Go set for my travels, the Yellow Mountain Imports bamboo 0.8
inch goban with single convex Yunzi stones plus bowls. Hopefully I can
convince some co-workers in Copenhagen to pick up this beautiful game
over lunch.

