---
layout: post
title:  "Fighting"
date:   2017-03-05
---

I've been cautiously working a fighting style back into my
play. When integrating your teacher's feedback, you often find your
judgment oscillating a bit as you try to reach a new equilibrium. By
focusing so strongly on making stable games I think my overall game
has weakened a bit, but that's to be expected.

I'm still playing fast games on Fox Go Server and quite few of these
tend to have a fighting flavor. But my account there is still only 7 kyu
so I tend to win most of my games. So my Foxy account is more for
"reinforcement" learning than it is for pushing my ability.

<div style="float: right; width: 400px; max-height: 585px;
margin-bottom: 2em;">
<iframe id="gokibitz-ryKWSaFce" src="//gokibitz.com/kifu/ryKWSaFce"
style="width: 400px; max-height: 585px; clear: both; display: block; border: 10px
solid snow;"></iframe> <script
src="//gokibitz.com/embed/ryKWSaFce"></script>
<p style="padding-left: 1em; font-size: 12px">Fight!</p>
</div>

My other active account is IGS, and those games are generally like my
Yunguseng games, slower and more thoughtful. IGS players aren't afraid
to fight, but I would say the style overall is balanced.

So where to go for a solid fighting game? Recently I started breathing
life into my 8 kyu WBaduk account. So far the skill level at 8 kyu
feels considerably stronger than 8 kyu Foxy. The games have an
aggressive and active quality but the flow of the games seem more
principled than Foxy and simple reading blunders less frequent. I
suspect WBaduk may become my goto fighting account.

I played a really fun WBaduk game today that I feel like in the past would
have confused me. But I was able to come up with a plan, stick to it,
and win the game even though it got off to a pretty bad start.

While I don't feel any of these activities are necessarily going to
push me way past KGS 5 kyu I can *feel* my game evolving. It's taking
me far less time to come up with an idea and my ideas tend be more
flexible. My current goal is to push my IGS account to 6 kyu and then
come back to KGS to see if that's enough to take me to KGS 4 kyu.

We shall see!

## Useful Software

Playing so many games across so many different servers means I've made
a couple additions to my Go software repertoire:

### MultiGo 

WBaduk uses a different game record file format `.gib`. So I went
looking for a something to do the conversion to `.sgf` and I came across
[MultiGo](http://www.ruijiang.com/multigo/). Works great!

### Leela

While I don't find Leela all that interesting for deeper game analysis I
really love using it for the move predictor. When reviewing critical
points in games it's interesting to see if Leela considered it a
highly probable move. It's even more interesting when Leela finds some
other move more probable - it's a neat way to find your blindspots.
